## Workspaces and Exported Assets

**Workspaces** are the means to organize asset projects that a game designer/artist/developer works in. Workspace folders hold your sprite and map editor asset files. These are typically a combination JSON files and PNG images referenced by the JSON files, all adhering to a certain folder structure. After you make edits to these files in the editor, you save them to disk. Because there's no special file format involved, just JSON, PNG, etc in a folder hierarchy, it's very easy to version control your workspaces, diff and see isolated changes clearly, etc. However there is an important distinction to make between your raw asset files vs **exported** asset files.

The raw asset files in your workspace are not meant to be used by your game engine directly. Instead you need to export your workspace by pressing the "Export" button in either editor (separate from Save button). This exports the workspace to a new format in a separate folder of your choosing, performing key transformations on the raw asset files and exporting them to a format optimized for the game engine. The raw asset files are the ones you should be saving, backing up and version controlling since they are your fundamental base assets. The exported asset files can also be version controlled, but it's not necessary since they are generated files, and are better suited for integration in a build process.

Generally, the exported assets will have the same data model as the raw ones with a few tweaks. Some fields may only be used in editor and cleared out for exported variants that are created. Some fields are only set in the exported variants. If your engine needs to load assets really quickly or if you need to minimize file size at all costs, or if you want to prevent accidental (or deliberate) modding of assets, you could add another step to your export pipeline to further convert the exported JSON into some binary format specific to your engine.

Generally, the editor handles sprite/map JSON creation, but you can rename, move and modify files in your workspace externally without too much hassle. In fact this is required and intentional in many cases since the editor does not support renaming/moving for simplicity. Map sections and sprites can generally be renamed/moved freely without issue. Spritesheets are a bit harder to move/rename since you have to change the reference to the spritesheet path in the sprite JSON, so try to pick a good name for them from the start. But you can always just to find+replace in a text editor on your JSON files. Spritesheet additions (which is literally just adding png files to the spritesheets folder) and image pixel manipulation have to be done outside the editor, as doing it inside is not supported right now. Modifications done in the file system will not be reflected until you close and re-open the editor, so don't do them with a session still active. It's best to save and close the editor first.

## Export Design Rationale

Exporting does add an extra step and layer of complexity, so why was it designed like this? This is a common pattern in asset/art tooling, having a different project file vs export file format. It allows for optimizing the raw asset format for maximum editing/tooling productivity, while not exposing any details to the game engine that are editor specific, and allowing the assets to be optimized in a way that an artist would not care about when working on game assets, but that are important when the game engine loads them (or vice versa).

For example, the sprite editor will efficiently package all sprites into one big spritesheet texture with minimal padding between sprites. Artists should not care about this optimization process, and having an artist constantly do this manually would be time consuming, error prone and slow down rapid iteration. Artists instead should feel free to structure their "workspace" spritesheet PNGs however they want to their heart's desire, to maximize productivity and artistic creativity. Conversely, the map editor has a concept of "virtual sections" to allow storing a large amount of house interior rooms in the same map section canvas, which can greatly increase productivity for a game designer working in the map editor by bulking together like rooms, but then the export process splits them out into separate map sections, as if there were no "virtual section" concept at all. This concept is never exposed to the game engine, and should not be since it would add unnecessary complexity there. 
